---
layout: article
title: Roundcube 1.4 Release Candidate 2
tags: releases beta
---
We just published the long awaited second release candidate for the next major
version 1.4 of Roundcube webmail. Many fixes, improvements and final touches
have gone into this since the first release candidate was published.
Check the [Changelog](https://github.com/roundcube/roundcubemail/releases/tag/1.4-rc2)
for a complete list of changes.

We waited for some promised contributions which unfortunately never arrived
but we now feel confident to call the new Elastic skin complete and ready
to be officially released.

As we're moving towards the final release, we strongly encourage everybody to
customize the Elastic skin using the `_styles.less` and `_variables.less` files
to blend into your corporate design. You'll find guidance for customization in
the README.md file inside the skin folder.

Rolling out a new and significantly different user interface should be carefully
planned and we recommend to prepare your users for the change. Therefore
the Elastic theme is not set to be the default theme. Adjust your config in order
to enable it by default or let your users switch themselves in the user settings.

Please note that the Classic skin will no longer be maintained and completely removed
in future releases. Within the 1.4 release series, the Classic skin remains part of the
package but it will not receive new features that were added to the Larry or Elastic themes.

This is still a preview release and we recommend to test it on a separate environment.
And don't forget to backup your data before installing it.

Download it from [roundcube.net](https://roundcube.net/download).
