---
layout: article
title: Update 1.4.1 released
tags: releases updates stable
---
Short time after the release of the stable version 1.4.0 of Roundcube Webmail we already publish the first service release.
With the recent release we missed to mention a few breaking changes since the last stable version 1.3. We apologize for this and are now clarifying and correcting these:

## Breaking changes

(since 1.3.x)

* ### new defaults for `smtp_*` config options:

  Upon many requests and in order to get closer to the default setup of most SMTP servers, we changed the defaults as follows:

      // SMTP port (default is 587)
      $config['smtp_port'] = 587;

      // SMTP username (if required). %u will use the current username for login
      $config['smtp_user'] = '%u';

      // SMTP password (if required). %p will use the current user's password for login
      $config['smtp_pass'] = '%p';

* ### changed default `password_charset` to UTF-8:

  Because of many complaints, we decided to choose a more sane default that covers most setups and configurations.

* ### login page returning 401 Unauthorized status:

  The new behavior that Roundcube 1.4 returns a 401 status code if the client is not authenticated apparently was very unexpected and lead to monitoring problems. Despite not having mentioned that change in the release notes, we now partly reverted it so that 401 is only returned on login failures but not on the first request to Roundcube which by definition is unauthorized.

Besides these three major concerns we heard from your much appreciated feedback, we fixed a number of nasty bugs that sneaked into the 1.4.0 release. See the full changelog in the [release notes](https://github.com/roundcube/roundcubemail/releases/tag/1.4.1) on the Github download page.

This release is considered stable and we recommend to update all productive installations 
of Roundcube with this version. Download it from [roundcube.net](https://roundcube.net/download).

Please do backup your data before updating!
