---
layout: article
title: Roundcube 1.5.0 released
tags: releases stable
---
We proudly announce the final release of the next major version 1.5 of Roundcube webmail.
With this milestone we introduce new features and full PHP 8.0 support.
The most noteworthy additions are:

* Dark mode for Elastic skin
* OAuth2/XOauth support (with plugin hooks)
* Collected recipients and trusted senders
* Moving recipients between inputs with drag & drop
* Full unicode support with MySQL database
* Support of IMAP LITERAL- extension [RFC 7888](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7888)
* Support of [RFC 2231](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2231) encoded names
* Cache refactoring

See the full changelog in the [release notes](https://github.com/roundcube/roundcubemail/releases/tag/1.5.0)
on the Github download page.

We also disabled the spell checking feature using spell.roundcube.net by default because
some privacy concerns were raised. It now needs to be enabled explicitly by setting the
`enable_spellcheck` config option to true.

In case you're running Roundcube directly from source or if you're not using
the complete package, you need to install 3rd party javascript modules using the
`bin/install-jsdeps.sh` script. In the 1.5.x series the toolchain required to build
a functional package has changed a bit:

* `bin/jsshrink.sh`: replaced `google-closure-compiler` with UglifyJS
* `bin/cssshrink.sh`: replaced `yuicompressor` with `csso`
* Elastic theme: require `lessc` >= 2.5.2 (and add support for v4) with `less-plugin-clean-css`

This release is considered stable and we encourage you to update your productive installations 
after carefully testing the upgrade scenario. Download it from [roundcube.net](https://roundcube.net/download).

With the release of Roundcube 1.5.0, the previous stable release branches 1.4.x
and 1.3.x will change into LTS low maintenance mode which means they will only
receive important security updates but no longer any regular improvement updates.
The 1.2.x series is no longer supported and maintained.
