---
layout: article
title: Roundcube 1.5 beta released
tags: releases beta
---
We proudly announce the beta release for the next major version 1.5 of Roundcube webmail.
With this milestone we introduce new features and long-awaited improvements.
The most noteworthy additions are:

* PHP 8.0 support
* OAuth2/XOauth support
* Dark mode for Elastic skin
* Collected recipients and trusted senders
* Moving recipients between inputs with drag & drop
* Full unicode support with MySQL database
* Cache refactoring

Adding support for PHP 8 required some deep refactoring of the Roundcube codebase
which started with early PHP 5 versions. However, this refactoring also was a bit of
a cleaning procedure and resulted in more testable components.

In case you're running Roundcube directly from source or if you're not using
the complete package, you need to install 3rd party javascript modules using the
`bin/install-jsdeps.sh` script. With this release the toolchain required to build
a functional package has changed a bit:

* `bin/jsshrink.sh`: replaced `google-closure-compiler` with UglifyJS
* `bin/cssshrink.sh`: replaced `yuicompressor` with `csso`
* Elastic theme: require `lessc` >= 2.5.2 (and add support for v4) with `less-plugin-clean-css`

See the full changelog in the [release notes](https://github.com/roundcube/roundcubemail/releases/tag/1.5-beta)
on the Github download page.

This is a beta release and we recommend to test it on a separate environment.
And don't forget to backup your data before installing it.
Download it from [roundcube.net](https://roundcube.net/download).

We also have some [Docker images](https://hub.docker.com/r/roundcube/roundcubemail/tags?page=1&name=beta)
availabe for quick testing and evaluation.

## Update

If you intend to test new Roundcube with OAuth2, have a look at [this wiki page](https://github.com/roundcube/roundcubemail/wiki/Configuration:-OAuth2).
