---
layout: article
title: Roundcube 1.6 beta released
tags: releases beta
---
We proudly announce the beta release for the next major version 1.6 of Roundcube webmail.
With this milestone we cleaned up the codebase and bring full support for PHP 8.1.
The most noteworthy changes are:

* PHP 8.1 support
* Dropped support for PHP < 7.3
* Support responses (snippets) in HTML format
* Option to purge deleted mails older than 30, 60 or 90 days
* Unified and simplified services connection config options
* Removed the Classic and Larry skins from the release packages
* SQLite: Use foreign keys, require SQLite >= 3.6.19

Adding support for PHP 8.1 again required some refactoring of the Roundcube codebase
and removing/replacing now deprecated PHP code. We also used this cleaning efforts
and simplified Roundcube's config options a bit.

## Breaking Changes

The following config options have either been removed or renamed:

1. IMAP:
    - renamed `default_host` to `imap_host`
    - removed `default_port` option (non-standard port can be set via `imap_host`)
    - set "localhost:143" as a default for `imap_host`
2. SMTP:
    - renamed `smtp_server` to `smtp_host`
    - removed `smtp_port` option (non-standard port can be set via `smtp_host`)
    - set "localhost:587" as a default for `smtp_host`
3. LDAP:
    - removed `port` option from `ldap_public` array (non-standard port can be set via `host`)
    - removed `use_tls` option from `ldap_public` array (use tls:// prefix in `host`)
4. Managesieve:
    - removed `managesieve_port` option (non-standard port can be set via `managesieve_host`)
    - removed `managesieve_usetls` option (tls:// prefix in `managesieve_host` have to be used)

If you used the **Larry** or the **Classic** skin in your deployment, you need to install them manually
as they are no longer part of the release packages. They can easily be installed via Composer:

```
$ composer require roundcube/larry
```

See the full changelog in the [release notes](https://github.com/roundcube/roundcubemail/releases/tag/1.6-beta) on the Github download page.

This is a beta release and we recommend to test it on a separate environment.
Download it from [roundcube.net](https://roundcube.net/download).
Migrate existing configs with either the `installto.sh` or the `update.sh` scripts.
And don't forget to backup your data before installing it.
