---
layout: article
title: Roundcube 1.7 beta released
tags: releases beta
---

The development team is pleased to announce the beta release for the next major version 1.7 of Roundcube webmail.

With this milestone we introduce a few breaking changes, some new features, and bring full support for PHP 8.4.

Some noteworthy changes are:

 * Make `public_html/` mandatory as entry-point for HTTP daemons, protecting all installations better.
 * Improve support for OAuth2 (e.g. supporting OpenID Connect discovery URLs).
 * A Mouse-over menu on the messages list with quick action icons.
 * Advanced mail search syntax with more possibilities – you can now use e.g. `is:unread` to only match unread messages. The [test file](https://github.com/roundcube/roundcubemail/blob/master/tests/Actions/Mail/SearchTest.php#L139) has a list of implemented keywords.
 * Message parts of content-type `text/markdown` are now rendered to HTML (if they are designated for showing).
 * Add a 'php' logging driver, which passes all log statements to PHP's `error_log` handler, allowing to unify all log output.
 * Requires PHP v8.1 or newer.

## Breaking Changes

 * Dropped support for PHP < 8.1.
 * Removed support for MS SQL Server and Oracle.
 * Make public_html/ entry-point mandatory, all static resources are served via static.php.
 * Removed `apc` cache driver (replaced by `apcu` cache driver).
 * Change `smtp_log` option default value to `false`.

For full details please see the [release notes](https://github.com/roundcube/roundcubemail/releases/tag/1.7-beta).

This is a beta release and we recommend to test it on a separate environment.
Migrate existing configs with either the `installto.sh` or the `update.sh` scripts.

And don't forget to backup your data before installing it!
