---
layout: article
title: Roundcube 1.7 beta2 released
tags: releases beta
---

The development team is pleased to announce the second beta release for the next major version 1.7 of Roundcube webmail.

With this milestone we introduce some more fixes, and bring full support for the early version of PHP 8.5.

It does not include breaking changes (beyond those of 1.7-beta).

Some noteworthy changes are:

- Support PHP v8.5(-pre) without deprecation warnings.
- Support IPv6 in database DSN (#9937)
- Use `htmleditor` setting also for identity signature (#9954)
- Fix regression in handling of non-unicode characters in a plain text message (#9953)
- Fix parsing of inline styles that aren't well-formatted (#9948)
- Support early MIME types for S/MIME encrypted messages (#9973)
- Only apply fix_path for href attrib in <link>s (#9943)
- Show homograph-warning-icon before email address, unify warning wording (#9945)
- Show full details with warning icon in case of phishing suspicion (#9945)
- Prepend group-names to display-name (#9945) Thanks to coco_melon for the reporting!
- Wash the `name` attribute also on more elements (#9949) – Thanks to pwn.ai by Octagon Networks for the reporting!
- Sanitize filename on download (#9960)
- Drop Internet Explorer from supported browsers (#9963)
- Enforce leading backslash for non-namespaced non-Roundcube uses (#9935)
- Use asset_url() instead of get_skin_file() for deleteicon on contact edit form (#9933)
- Several changes to the test tooling.

For full details please see the [release notes](https://github.com/roundcube/roundcubemail/releases/tag/1.7-beta2).

This is a beta release and we recommend to test it on a separate environment.
Migrate existing configs with either the installto.sh or the update.sh scripts.

And don't forget to backup your data before installing it!
